README.md, before:

# Registers Specifications

<https://openregister.github.io/specification/>

# Process

Changes to the specification should be raised as an issue before being added to the document.
The specification may include changes ahead of being implemented in the registers platform,
or other compliant implementations.

# Default branch

Note this repository doesn't have a master branch, the default is the gh-pages branch.

# Bikeshed

The specification is made using [Bikeshed](https://github.com/tabatkins/bikeshed).

# Building

Use make to build a local copy of the register data
— we recommend using a [Python virtual environment](http://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.org/en/latest/):

    $ mkvirtualenv -p python registers-specification
    $ workon registers-specification
    $ make init
    $ make

Note, bikeshed works with Python 2.7, and not with Python 3.0.

## Dockerised build

    $ make docker-image
    $ make docker-build

# Licence

The software in this project is open source, covered by LICENSE file.

All content is [© Crown copyright](http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/information-management/re-using-public-sector-information/copyright-and-re-use/crown-copyright/) and made available under the [Open Government Licence v3.0 (OGL)](https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/).

Commit message:

Move gatsby to the project root
Signed-off-by: Arnau Siches <arnau.siches@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk>

README.md, after:

# Registers specification

<https://openregister.github.io/specification/>

The specification builder uses [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/) to generate
a static site out of different data sources.

## Default branch

Note this repository doesn't have a master branch, the default is the gh-pages branch.

## Data sources

* `data/` directory: Metadata and complementary data.
* `content/` directory: The markdown source.


## Development

TODO: Dockerise to abstract dependencies.

### Dependencies

* nodejs 10
* yarn

### Running in development

```
yarn develop
```

## Build static files

```
yarn build
```

## Licence

Unless stated otherwise, the codebase is released under [the MIT licence](./LICENSE).

The data is [© Crown
copyright](http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/information-management/re-using-public-sector-information/copyright-and-re-use/crown-copyright/)
and available under the terms of the [Open Government
3.0](https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/)
licence.
